# Charter-vs-Public-Schools-BSAN6060

## Background 

### Business Problem 

There is a wide disparity in student performance in public schools, especially those located in low-income areas, and private schools. Private schools sufficiently prepare students for academic success since they have more resources and lower student-teacher ratios. In contrast, public schools in low-income neighborhoods struggle to support their students academically since they have fewer resources and overcrowded classrooms. In 1992, California enacted the Charter School Law to introduce the charter school, a hybrid institution that has characteristics of a public and private school. Like public schools, charter schools are free and funded by the government. Like private schools, charter schools have capped admissions and an application process before enrollment. 

Although there are similarities between public and charter schools, there are also distinct differences between these types of schools. Public schools accept all students within a school district without an application, whereas charter schools require an application process and have capped admissions. Open enrollment in public schools risks overwhelming school resources and overcrowded classrooms, which may deteriorate the quality of education. Charter schools are funded based on a per-pupil basis with government funds, and schools may receive private funding in some cases. Alternatively, public schools primarily receive funding from local taxes and partial funding from the state. Each charter school has a different curriculum designed by stakeholders, such as for-profit organizations, teachers, parents, the local school district, or government entities. In contrast, public school curricula must adhere to standards set by the school education board. 

Given the differences between public and charter schools, our group is interested in exploring whether low-income neighborhoods should consider converting public schools to private schools or building more charter schools. 

### Project Overview 

Our project compares student performance in charter and public schools in the Los Angeles Unified School District to determine whether neighborhoods should convert their public schools into charter schools or build more charter schools. Student performance represents dropout rates and High School graduation rates. Since we will be using dropout and High School graduation rates as metrics to evaluate student performance, we will be analyzing public high schools and charter schools. We assume that students who attended public high schools have also attended public middle and elementary schools. Most charter schools have grade levels from Kindergarten to 12th grade. We will examine student-teacher ratios to determine the level of support students receive in schools. Our group will also analyze household income in Los Angeles to understand the amount of resources schools receive from local taxes. Our project will utilize MySQL to run queries on educational datasets to answer our business problem, and we will use Tableau to visualize our data findings. 
